DOCSP-48179 add async c driver page (#90)
mongodb/docs-c: source/async-c-driver.txt

.. _c-async-driver:

=======================

> Public Preview: amongoc

Reviewer: Could we reword the title to something more user/SEO friendly:
"Async C Driver: Public Preview"

of this project.

What is amongoc?
----------------

``amongoc``, short for "asynchronous MongoDB C driver," is designed for developers 
who need a performant, asynchronous client library for MongoDB. It implements a selected
subset of MongoDB driver APIs to provide a sneak peek into what a C-based asynchronous 
client might look like. By evaluating this prototype, developers can help us gather 
critical insights that could influence the development of a production-ready solution 
in the near future.

Why Go Asynchronous?
--------------------

The motivation for building ``amongoc`` is rooted in performance optimization and 
providing high concurrency. Asynchronous programming decouples the initiation of a 
task from its continuation, addressing the inefficiencies of synchronous operations, 
particularly I/O, which are inherently slow and can block other processes. 
Asynchronous programming allows applications to remain responsive while waiting for 
I/O operations to complete, making it ideal for high-performance, network-intensive 
use cases. ``amongoc`` will also facilitate the integration of MongoDB into asynchronous

> frameworks like Drogon. Notably, it has also been the top requested feature for the 

Reviewer: There's a hyperlink expected here.

https://feedback.mongodb.com/forums/924286-drivers/suggestions/47080057-asynchronous-variant-of-mongodb-c-driver

.. _c-async-driver:

======================

> amongoc Public Preview

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Public Preview: amongoc
```

Our resources include: 

- A step-by-step `Quickstart guide <https://github.com/mongodb-labs/mongo-c-driver-async/tree/develop/etc/quickstart>`__
  to help you set up and initiate your first connection.
- Detailed `Reference documentation <https://mongodb-labs.github.io/mongo-c-driver-async/ref/>`__ 
  covering the configuration, building, and usage of the library.
- `Tutorials <https://mongodb-labs.github.io/mongo-c-driver-async/learn/>`__ to walk you through 
  common use cases and showcase the potential of asynchronous operations.
- List of `amongoc features <https://mongodb-labs.github.io/mongo-c-driver-async/ref/features/>`__
- `amongoc’s design considerations <https://mongodb-labs.github.io/mongo-c-driver-async/explain/consider/>`__ 
  and `amongoc’s asynchrony model <https://mongodb-labs.github.io/mongo-c-driver-async/explain/async-model/>`__

Here’s a simple application that initializes an asynchronous event loop and attempts to establish a connection to a local MongoDB server using the ``amongoc`` library.

.. literalinclude:: /includes/async-c-driver-example.c
   :language: c
   :dedent:

Feedback: Your Voice Matters
----------------------------

> This public preview release is focused on gathering user feedback to inform the architectural 
> decisions for a production-ready version. We invite you to try out ``amongoc`` and share your thoughts,
> suggestions, and issues. Please participate in GitHub `discussions <https://github.com/mongodb-labs/mongo-c-driver-async/discussions>`__ and `issues <https://github.com/mongodb-labs/mongo-c-driver-async/issues>`__ to 
> provide your feedback, especially about the interface and build & runtime requirements. Over the next few months, 
> our goal is to collect as much user input as possible to align with the needs and expectations of
> our user community. Your feedback is invaluable, and we eagerly look forward to hearing from you 
> and seeing what you'll create with ``amongoc``!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This public preview release is focused on gathering user feedback to inform the architectural 
decisions for a production-ready version of ``amongoc``. We invite you to share your thoughts,
suggestions, and issues in GitHub `discussions <https://github.com/mongodb-labs/mongo-c-driver-async/discussions>`__ and `issues <https://github.com/mongodb-labs/mongo-c-driver-async/issues>`__. We are especially interested in your opinions about the interface, and the build and runtime requirements. Our goal is to collect as much user input as possible to align with the needs and expectations of
our user community. 

Your feedback is invaluable, and we eagerly look forward to hearing from you 
and seeing what you'll create with ``amongoc``!
```
